# TPC_Acropora
 Thermal Performance Curves of Acropora data 02/2018
 
 BACKGROUND:
 There is a direct correlation between the increased frequency of marine heatwaves  (MHWs) and coral bleaching (Oliver et al. 2018). Defined as prolonged exposure to extreme sea surface temperatures lasting over five days, MHWs severely impact coral reef ecosystems resulting in reduced growth rates, health, and intensified mass bleaching events leading to coral death (Holbrook et al. 2020; Leggat et al. 2019; Sen Gupta et al. 2020). Climate change mitigation and policy will be integral to reducing the effects of heatwaves and general ocean warming on coral ecosystem survival, however the pace of these strategies leave marine scientists exploring local small-scale mitigation interventions to help reduce the adverse effects of MHWs (Henson et al. 2017; Laufkötter et al. 2020; W. P. Leggat et al. 2019).
		While most research on bleaching and coral mortality focuses on temperature, the additive effect of solar radiation also plays an important role (Board 2019; Forsman et al. 2021; Kenkel et al. 2011; Masiri et al. 2008). The primary factor that drives bleaching in corals occurs when their symbiotic algae (Symbiodiniaceae) undergo damage (light-stress) to their photosystem II leading to photoinhibition which can result in expulsion of symbionts from coral tissue (Brown & Dunne, 2015; Coelho et al. 2017; Freeman et al. 2001). On calm, clear summer afternoons, increased light-stress can exacerbate photoinhibition and diminish symbiont cellular mechanisms and increase thermal sensitivity in corals (Cacciapaglia & van Woesik, 2015; DiPerna et al. 2018; Gonzalez-Espinosa & Donner, 2021; Hill et al. 2012). 
		Reef shading is an engineering mediation that reduces solar radiation, light irradiance, and sea surface temperatures (Board, 2019) by cooling the water column lowering the negative impacts of bleaching events. Shading techniques have been investigated on small scales using a variety of methodologies from knitted black polyethylene fabric that reduces PAR (photosynthetically active radiation) by 50–75% (Coelho et al. 2017), sprinkler irrigation systems removing wave lensing (Veal et al. 2010), and complete shading with black plastic (Rogers, 1979). The results from these studies vary widely, from having negative effects on net primary production and respiration of coral community structure (Rogers 1979), to increased coral growth under shaded treatments (Coelho et al. 2017), to no differences in photophysiological responses in corals from the Red Sea (Veal et al. 2010). While this technique cannot directly influence coral adaptation or thermal tolerance, the potential to increase coral persistence by decreasing environmental stresses may be more effective than current attempts to curb the climate crisis (Board, 2019; Atwoli et al. 2021).
		Akin to shading techniques, several studies have found corals that maintain higher heterotrophic consumption rates decrease their risk of bleaching and have faster recoveries (Anthony et al. 2009; Baumann et al. 2014; Bessell-Browne et al. n.d.; Ferrier-Pagès et al. 2010; Grottoli et al. 2006; Hughes & Grottoli, 2013; Sangmanee et al. 2020). Current hypotheses suggest that under increased solar radiation, CO2 demand for photosynthesis is the limiting factor weakening the light reactions in Symbiodiniaceae (see Figure 1. Wooldridge, 2014). Increasing low CO2 levels by maximizing coral respiration rates via heterotrophic feeding may improve the autotrophic capacity of algal symbionts and limit the loss of algal symbionts (Ferrier-Pagès et al. 2010). When corals consume nutrients heterotrophically ~80–94% of total daily carbon and ~50–85% of nitrogen needs can be met, but environmental nutrient availability limits heterotrophy (Houlbrèque et al. 2004). Ferrier-Pages et al. (2010) found that artificially increasing nutrients prevented damage to symbionts’ photosynthetic machinery regardless of heterotrophic rates, suggesting that nutrient access enhances autotrophy. Nutrient supplementation before and during peak periods of environmental stress has the potential to aid in coral recovery from thermal-induced bleaching events (Board, 2019), especially if sequestration of nutrients occurs over extended periods of time (Hughes & Grottoli, 2013). 
		Coral bleaching and thermal thresholds vary significantly across the globe due to differences in environmental pressures, species and genotypic specific responses in coral and their Symbiodiniaceae (Ainsworth et al. 2016; Donovan et al. 2021; Palumbi et al. 2014). The feasibility, scale, limitations, infrastructure, and risks associated with implementing mediation techniques also vary by location and species (Board, 2019). Therefore, understanding how coral holobiont physiology and metabolic processes respond to preventative interventions in a controlled laboratory experiment is the first step in understanding the advantages and/or drawbacks to the potential use of these techniques. 
	The objective of this research was to quantify thermal sensitivities in three genotypes of Acropora cervicornis currently used in coral restoration under three different environmental mitigation scenarios (and amongst each other in an ambient control treatment) to measure the effect of these intervention treatments on clone-specific performance responses.
1) A shading technique (irrigated sprinkler system) which reduced PAR by 25%,
2) a heterotrophic supplemental treatment (LED enhanced feeding system used during night-time feeding to attract live phytoplankton (Nannochloropsis oculate) to the direct vicinity of coral polyps), and 
3) an interactive technique which used both shading and heterotrophic approaches (sprinkler and LED systems) to assess synergistic effects of both techniques.
Methodology:
	Forty–eight Acropora cervicornis coral fragments (7–10 cm in length) from 3 genotypes (n =16 individuals/genotype) grown on coral nurseries trees® were donated and shipped overnight from CRF in Key Largo, Florida. Corals acclimated to laboratory conditions for 15 days in four 20-gallon (4 randomly chosen individuals from each genotype, n =12 corals/tank, Figure 6A) recirculating artificial seawater systems (Figure 6B). Preliminary buoyant weights were taken in a 20gal glass aquarium with a Mettler Toledo 4-place balance with an underpan weighing hook (Jokiel & Maragos, 1978). After the acclimation period, two irrigated sprinkler systems were set above two treatment tanks (sprinkler and interactive) and sprayed sump-supplied recirculating artificial seawater (24-hours/day) on the surface water of the tanks (Figure 6C). In addition, four submersible LED lights were affixed in all tanks to the underside of egg crate trays which kept corals erect. LEDs were activated only in the LED feeding and interactive treatments (6pm-7pm) once per week during phytoplankton feeding (Figure 3C). 
	The heat-press experiment and respirometry measurements took place April 9th, 2018– April 23rd, 2018. Temperatures were raised from ambient 27℃ to 34℃ at intervals of 0.5℃/day in each tank (Figure 6D). We measured metabolic activity (heat-press mesthodology) on individual corals (n= 48) every other day over 8 temperatures (27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34℃). We set up an incubation chamber (chambermaid) in a 150-qrt Igloo polar cooler with an Apex Aquacontroller, heater and chiller. The chambermaid had recirculating water replaced every testing day and a full spectrum aquarium light (MARS AQUA 300 W LED) was set to 650 ± 3µmol photons m–2 s–1. We chose this light intensity for metabolic responses based on in-situ PAR measurements made by CRF at the coral nursery where corals were collected in February 2018 (personal communication Amelia Moura CRF). 
	For each of the eight temperatures (27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34℃), individual corals (n = 8 corals/trial with two control chambers) were randomly assigned into one of six incubation trials (n = 48 corals/temperature, n = 6 incubation trials/temperature). We ensured that at least one individual from each genotype and each treatment were represented in each incubation, which consisted of eight corals and two control chambers (artificial seawater only) for each thirty-minute incubation period (continuous 15-min dark followed by a 15-min light period). Oxygen evolution was tracked using a fiber-optic oxygen and temperature probe sensors (Pre-sens dipping probes [DP-PSt-7–10-L2.5-ST10-YP]) and gross respiration and net photosynthesis were used to calculate gross photosynthesis rates. Thermal performance curves were log-transformed change in oxygen concentrations (GP & R) normalized to 3D surface area estimates (NextEngine 3D Scanner) and averaged for each treatment (n = 12) and for each genotype within each treatment (n = 4) using a nonlinear least squares regression. Regression curves were bootstrapped and TPC parameter metrics (Topt, Pmax, E, Eh, CTmax and Tbr) were predicted using rTPC pipeline in base R (Padfield et al. 2021).
	Corals were buoyantly weighed a second time using the same technique as the preliminary weights and then flash frozen in liquid nitrogen on April 23rd (and stored in –80℃ freezer) after each incubation trial. Growth rates were determined from preliminary and post heat-press respirometry buoyant weight values. Individual corals had their tissue collected for physiological analyses using 110-120V airbrush compressor with artificial seawater mimicking methodology from Wall (2017). Using a Tissue-Tearor® handheld homogenizer, the resulting tissue slurry (blastate) was mixed, and separated into samples for Symbiodiniaceae density, chlorophyll a, and total protein analysis (Wall, 2016).
	I hypothesized that corals under the three stress mitigation treatments would have improved metabolic and physiological responses when compared to the control, because the mitigation treatments reduced total PAR (sprinkler and interactive) and enhanced nutritional supplementation with LED light attractants (LED feeding and interactive). To test this hypothesis, I compared estimated thermal performance curve parameter metrics (Topt, Pmax, E, Eh, CTmax and Tbr) and physiological metrics (chlorophyll a, total protein content, symbiont density, and growth rates) using parametric (ANOVA) and non-parametric (Kruskal-Wallis) (~treatment*genotype) statistical analyses in R software. 


